#summary Measurement units for various quantities used by StarCraft and GPTP

= Measurement Units =

!StarCraft uses several types of measurement units that one should know about when making a mod. This should not be confused with game units, such as Marines, Zerglings, and Zealots.

== Distance ==

 * Pixel: The basic unit of distance.
 * Matrix: Used for sight range, seek range (AKA target acquisition range), map tiles, as well as to describe weapon range in official websites. 1 matrix = 32 pixels.
 * Submatrix: Used in `weapons.dat` for describing weapon range. 1 submatrix = 16 pixels = 0.5 matrix.
 * Subpixel: Used in `flingy.dat` for unit speed and acceleration. 256 subpixels = 1 pixel.

== Time ==

 * Frame: The basic unit of time. Used in `flingy.dat` for unit speed and acceleration.
 * Second: Depends on game speed settings. See the table below:

|| *Game Speed* || *Frames Per Second* ||
|| Slowest || 6 ||
|| Slower || 9 ||
|| Slow || 12 ||
|| Normal || 15 ||
|| Fast || 18 ||
|| Faster || 21 ||
|| Fastest || 24 ||

== Angle ==

 * Binary radian (brad): The basic unit of angle. Used in `flingy.dat` for unit turn speed (incorrectly labeled "Turn Radius"), as well as in `weapons.dat` for attack angle and launch spin. 1 brad = 1.40625 degrees, and 256 brad = 360 degrees.
 * Frame radian (frad): Represents the angle difference between two frames of a frameset in a GRP file. Used by the `turncwise`, `turnccwise`, and `turn1cwise` opcodes in `iscript.bin`. 1 frad = 8 brad = 11.25 degrees, and 32 frad = 360 degrees.

== HP, Shields, and Energy ==

!StarCraft uses integers to calculate fractions of HP, shields, and energy. For example, a unit with 40 hit points in-game actually has the internal value of 40 x 256 = 10240 hit points.

== Supply ==

!StarCraft handles supply in integers. To handle the 0.5 supply of Zerglings and Scourges, it internally uses 2 times the supply amount displayed in-game.

For example, Zerglings actually have 1 supply (instead of 0.5) in the plugin; Marines and Medics have 2 supply, instead of 1; and Zealots and Dragoons have 4 supply (instead of 2).